# Customer-Personality-Analysis
Customer Personality Analysis is a detailed analysis of a company’s ideal customers. It helps a business to better understand its customers and makes it easier for them to modify products according to the specific needs, behaviors and concerns of different types of customers. In this project, we are going to introduce you to a data science project on customer personality analysis with Python. Data Science and Artificial Intelligence are revolutionizing the world through technical transformations. We can observe many machine learning applications in day-to-day lives, but one of the greatest applications of machine learning is to classify individuals based on their personality traits. Each person on this planet is unique and carries a unique personality. The availability of a high-dimensional and large amount of data has paved the way for increasing marketing campaigns' effectiveness by targeting specific people. Such personality-based communications are highly effective in increasing the popularity and attractiveness of products and services. It increased usage, customer satisfaction, and broader acceptance among users. Some common examples are: Personalization of online advertisement campaigns leads to more revenue and click-through rates. Personality traits are closely associated with an individual’s behavior and preferences. Hence the fusion of a personality-based approach has primarily increased the Recommender System’s attractiveness. Personality-based adaption’s are also used to provide personalized visualizations and could even suggest better music recommendations. Data Science and Artificial Intelligence are revolutionizing the world through technical transformations. We can observe many machine learning applications in day-to-day lives, but one of the greatest applications of machine learning is to classify individuals based on their personality traits. Each person on this planet is unique and carries a unique personality. The availability of a high-dimensional and large amount of data has paved the way for increasing marketing campaigns' effectiveness by targeting specific people. Such personality-based communications are highly effective in increasing the popularity and attractiveness of products and services. It increased usage, customer satisfaction, and broader acceptance among users. Some common examples are: Personalization of online advertisement campaigns leads to more revenue and click-through rates. Personality traits are closely associated with an individual’s behavior and preferences. Hence the fusion of a personality-based approach has primarily increased the Recommender System’s attractiveness. Personality-based adaption’s are also used to provide personalized visualizations and could even suggest better music recommendations. Personality traits could also solve the “cold start” problem using scientifically validated and relatively stable latent dimensions of an individual based on personalized systems With the availability of high-dimensional and fine-grained data about human behavior, it becomes too handy to research and observe human behavior. Using mobile sensing studies, data collected from our day-to-day activities have drastically altered how psychologists perform research and undertake personality assessments. Machine learning models are a boon to researchers and are used to learn highly complex relationships and evaluate their generalizability and robustness using the resampling method. It has the potential to transform research and assessment in personality psychology. Algorithms can handle vast datasets, including thousands of attributes, without succumbing to co-linearity issues. Moreover, ML algorithms are highly efficient in recognizing patterns in datasets that humans cannot even perceive. The use of these ML models can lead to better, more objective, and automated personality assessments. People interact and express their likes, thoughts, feelings, and opinions on social media, capturing their personality traits. Machine Learning models have been actively using such a wide range of data to predict individuals. Various supervised machine learning algorithms like Naïve Bayes and Support Vector Machines are widely used among industries to predict personality traits. Moreover, recently, researchers have started to apply unsupervised learning methods to identify other psychological constructs in digital data. As a data scientist we come across datasets where we have the data but we don't know much about what story it contains. In that case we need to figure out something to start with, exploratory data analysis is the best way to start with. EDA gives you a glance at the data story and what it hides. But what if we still need some more from the data or the EDA is not capable of satisfying our desires. Then in that case we use some machine learning algorithm to deep dive into the data and bring out useful insights. We are doing this case study on a customer dataset to see how a machine learning algorithm can help to find the hidden insights. This case study also helps the reader to understand the way to use the algorithm as we are trying to be as simple as we can. Also this case study will help to understand the flow of code for EDA, Visualization, to algorithm and conclusion. How we can use different libraries to explore and visualize the data set.

What is the study is all about? So, here we have a dataset of customers which has some demographic and purchasing details. We are trying to get the costumer's personality and its behavior. In this project, unsupervised data clustering is performed on customers' records from a supermarket's database. Customer segmentation is the practice of dividing customers into groups that reflect similarities among each other. Customers will be divided into segments to support customer targeting campaigns.

How we are going to do this? We don't have any target variable. We will divide the customers into different clusters based on the similarities and dissimilarities with the help of KMeans clustering algorithm.
